***ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:
A programming language is a computer language that programmers are using to develop the software programs,
Testers writing the test scripts and other different types of instruction for computer to execute.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?

Answer:
A Java Development kit include JRE( Java Runtime Environment), an interpreter(Java),
a compiler(Javac), an archiver(jar), a documentation generator(javadoc) and some other development tools.

JRE: JRE is a software layer that runs on top of a  computer's operating system software and provides the
class.
Java: Java is an object-oriented programming language that produces software for multiple platforms.

Javac and Javadoc: both needed for loading the class file for run.

Jar:It's a file format based on the popular ZIP file format and is used for aggregating many files into one.
it is also using for java archiving general archiving tool.

What is an IDE?
Answer:
IDE: Integration Development Environment.Tools provided by an IDE include a text editor, a project editor,
a tool-bar, and an output viewer.IDEs can perform a variety of functions include write code,
 compile code, debug code,and monitor resources.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer: Most popular Java IDEs include NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ,
and Visual Studio.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:
When Programmer's write a program/code in the text editor and it is saving in the .java file
as a source code.java has a built-in compiler which is helping to convert those source code from
.java file to machine language which is byte code and stored in the .class file. After that this byte code comes to
the JVM inside the class loader to load the class.When java compiler converting the source code that time also it is
saving in java libraries and then from there it is comes to the JVM inside the Class loader for loading
the class. Then verifying the byte code and interpreting it and these all happened on the host machine which is
Different types of operating system as like windows, Mac,Linux.

What is a class?
Answer:Class is a blueprint/template/representation or user-defined data type for the objects. We write only one class
for 100’s or more of objects.A class is defined using the class keyword followed by the name of the class and then the
class body is defined.

What is an object?
Answer:An object is a real-world or software entry which has attributes(instance fields) and behavior(instance methods).
The object is created with a new operator in the heap. e.g. new ClassName(); .Objects are instantiated when class is
loaded into memory. Objects are also called as Instances.

What is the entry point of an application?
Answer:
The main method is the entry point of a Java application.

Why is the main() static?
Answer:
Java main() method is always static, so that compiler can call it without the creation of an object or before
the creation of an object of the class

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:
The class named Object is the super class of all class in Java.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:
PATH is the environment variable where we specify the locations of binaries.
As an example when We add bin directory path of JDK or JRE, so that any binaries under the directory can be accessed
directly without specifying absolute path.
So CLASSPATH is the path for Java application where the classes we compiled will be available.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:
An abstract class allows us to create functionality that subclasses can implement or override it. An interface only can
allow defining functionality, not implement it. And whereas a class can extend only one abstract class,
it can take advantage of multiple interfaces

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:
No we cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class (interface is not
even considered as a class.)
only we can do is to implement a subclass of abstract class which, of course,must not be abstract.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer:
The access modifiers in Java specifies the accessibility or scope of a field, method, constructor, or  class.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:
Object-Oriented Programming System (OOPs) is a programming concept that works on the principles of abstraction,
encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.The basic concept of OOPs is to create objects, re-use them
throughout the program, and manipulate these objects to get results.

Abstraction:Main purpose of Abstraction OOP concept is showing only essential attributes and hiding unnecessary
information.
Encapsulation: It is Data hiding. so when we make the Object or method in private then we have to call get method
and set method to do the coding. Otherwise, Global variable can't access on it.

Inheritance:The class which inherits the properties of other is known as subclass (derived class, child class)
and the class whose properties are inherited is known as superclass (base class, parent class).

Polymorphism:Polymorphism is one of the OOPs concept that allows us to perform a single action in different ways.
As an example, If we have a class Animal that has a method sound() . Since this is a generic class, so we can't
give it an implementation like: Roar, Meow, Oink etc.
so whenever we are doing coding its giving two types of error. one is compiled time polymorphism and other one is
run time polymorphism. for Compile time polymorphism we are using overloading method and for run time polymorphism
we are using overridden method.


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:
A java package is a group of similar types of classes, interfaces and sub-packages. Package in java can be
categorized in two form, built-in package and user-defined package. There are many built-in packages such as
java, lang, awt, javax, swing, net, io, util, sql.
Java compiler imports java. lang package internally by default.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:
API is Application Programming Interface.It allows two applications to communicate with one another to access
data.
1. Log-in Using XYZ
 API usage is the “log-in using Facebook/Twitter/Google/Github”
2. Pay with PayPal
3. Twitter Bots
4. Weather Snippets

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer:
Java doesn’t allow multiple inheritance to avoid the ambiguity caused by it.As an Example
if we have a superclass A and child class B and C and grand child D.so here is multiple inheritance as Class A extends
both classes B & C. Now if we think that  we have a method in class D and class B & C overrides that method in their
own way. so here is the problem comes – Because A is extending both B & C so if A wants to use the same method which
method would be called (the overridden method of B or the overridden method of C). Ambiguity.

What is method overloading and when does it happen?
Answer:
Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name,
if their argument lists are different.
Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters.


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:
The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions. Suppose if I write the code that I want to run
in the try block, and any Java exceptions that the code throws are caught by one or more catch blocks.
This method will catch any type of Java exceptions that get thrown. This is the simplest mechanism for
handling exceptions.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:
In the Java programming language, the keyword static indicates that the particular member
belongs to a type itself, rather than to an instance of that type. This means that only one instance
of that static member is created which is shared across all instances of the class.

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:
static keyword is mainly used for memory management. It can be used with variables, methods, blocks
and nested classes. It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class.
Basically, static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same for every instance of a class.

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:
The basic difference between final, finally and finalize is that the final is a key word,
finally is the block in Exception Handling and finalize is the method of object class.

What is a constructor?
Answer:
A constructor in Java is a block of code similar to a method that's called when an instance of an object
is created.A constructor doesn't have a return type. The name of the constructor must be the same as
the name of the class

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:
The technique of having two (or more) constructors in a class is known as constructor overloading. A class
can have multiple constructors that differ in the number and/or type of their parameters.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:
All classes have at least one constructor. If a class does not explicitly declare any, the Java compiler
automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default constructor.If the parent has
no constructor ( Object does have one), the compiler will reject the program.

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:
The "this" keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor. The most common use of the "this"
keyword is to eliminate the confusion between class attributes and parameters with the same name (because a
class attribute is shadowed by a method or constructor parameter). Return the current class object

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:
The super keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects. It is used to call superclass methods, and to access the
superclass constructor. The most common use of the super keyword is to eliminate the confusion between
superclasses and subclasses that have methods with the same name.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:
Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:
No, JVMs are not platform independent. In fact they are platform specific run time environment provided
by the vendor. Each platform (Windows, UNIX, Mac etc) has its own JVM to run Java applications.

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:
java version "11.0.12" 2021-07-20 LTS

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:
Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:
JDK is a software development kit whereas JRE is a software bundle that allows Java program to run,
whereas JVM is an environment for executing bytecode. The full form of JDK is Java Development Kit,
while the full form of JRE is Java Runtime Environment, while the full form of JVM is Java Virtual Machine.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:
The JVM is the process that runs the Java code, and the JRE are all files distributed to form the "environment"
in which the JVM runs. JRE is an environment, in order to execute any Java program locally.

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:
Compile time is when the program is compiled; runtime is when it executes (on either a physical or virtual
computer). Programmers use the term static to refer to anything that is created during compile time and
stays fixed during the program run.

What is heap?
Answer:
All the Objects, their related instance variables and array are stored in the heap. This memory is
common and shared across multiple threads.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:
In Java, memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects, called Memory management.
Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage
collector.

What is Singleton class?
Answer:
A Singleton class in Java allows only one instance to be created and provides global access to all other classes
through this single object or instance. Similar to the static fields, The instance fields(if any) of a class
will occur only for a single time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:
Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the
reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory. This mechanism is
used to persist the object.

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:
The while loop tests the condition before executing any of the statements within the while loop
whereas the do-while loop tests the condition after the statements have been executed within the loop.

What is Enum?
Answer:
An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants (unchangeable variables, like final variables).

What is Iterator?
Answer:
An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet. It is called
an "iterator" because "iterating" is the technical term for looping. To use an Iterator, we have to import it
from the java. util package.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:
int helps in storing integer value into memory. On other hand Integer is an object which
takes 128 bits (16 bytes) to store its int value.

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:
The String is immutable in Java because of the security, synchronization and concurrency, caching, and
class loading. The reason of making string final is to destroy the immutability and to not allow others
to extend it. The String objects are cached in the String pool, and it makes the String immutable.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:
Constructor Chaining in Java is used when we want to pass parameters through multiple different constructors
using a single object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:
a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation,
while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What does JIT stands for?
Answer:
just-in-time
just-in-time: referring to a method of producing goods in which they are produced at the last possible
moment, generally when they are ordered.

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:
Java garbage collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management.
Java programs compile to bytecode that can be run on a Java Virtual Machine, or JVM for short. When
Java programs run on the JVM, objects are created on the heap, which is a portion of memory dedicated
to the program

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:
Java Heap Space is used throughout the application, but Stack is only used for the method — or methods — currently
running. The Heap Space contains all objects are created, but Stack contains any reference to those objects.
Objects stored in the Heap can be accessed throughout the application.

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:
Reflection is a process of exploring and examining ourselves, our perspectives, attributes, experiences and
actions / interactions. It helps us gain insight and see how to move forward. Reflection is often done as
writing, possibly because this allows us to probe our reflections and develop them more thoughtfully.

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:
In Java, Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously for maximum
utilization of the CPU. A thread in Java is a lightweight process requiring fewer resources to create and
shares the process resources.

What is a Framework?
Answer:
A framework, or software framework, is a platform for developing software applications. ... For example, a
framework may include predefined classes and functions that can be used to process input, manage hardware
devices, and interact with system software.

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:
7 Best Testing Frameworks for Java Developers.
Selenium. Selenium is a free and open-source testing framework and is mostly used to test web applications
based on various platforms. Serenity, JUnit, TestNG, Cucumber, JBehave, Mockito.

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:
JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests. TestNG is a Java-based framework that is an
upgraded option for running tests. Parallel test Runs. JUnit does not support to run parallel tests. TestNG can
run parallel tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:
Dependencies are the relationships of the preceding tasks to the succeeding tasks. Tasks may have multiple
preceding tasks and multiple succeeding tasks. The most common dependency relationship is a finish-to-start
relationship. Task P (predecessor) must be finished before task S (successor) can start.

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:
Dependency injection (DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside. DI can be
implemented in any programming language. The general concept behind dependency injection is called Inversion
of Control. A Java class has a dependency on another class, if it uses an instance of this class.

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:
Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding.
Overloaded methods are resolved (deciding which method to be called when there are multiple methods with
same name) using static binding while overridden methods using dynamic binding, i.e, at run time.